Okay,
let's look at this next lesson about directory assignment.
What are we going to do?
Inject?
Reassignment?
What kind of script are we going to Dio?
Well,
this is a script also,
I have experienced many off my coworkers or my friends who are in this field.
They have experienced this kind of issue.
What happened is they There are home directories or their directories inside of slash home
.
But what happened is all those uses that are in the etc password.
Those directors do not belong to them.
So why do we have those directories than if they do not belong in etc.
If to any of the users that are in etc password Because in reality,
as a standard,
every user directory should go into slash home.
And if there is a directory that is like X y Z,
and it does not belong to an actual user,
should be deleted from at slash home unless it has an application associated with it or,
you know there's a business justification for it.
So we are trying to find out those home directories that do not belong to a user.
So we will do is we will match these uses from SC password,
too slash home to direct and it will complain.
Hey,
this directory do not belong to this user or has no user It'll okay,
so go.
Let's go into our machine now.
This time I want you to be route.
And first of all,
what do you have to do is to go into the,
um,
slash home,
depict and create a user directory.
Call Juno's Now Juno's is,
ah,
directory name that I pecked because I do not have Juno's in my etc.
Password.
You see,
nothing came up.
It means this user do not exist.
So if my script works the way I wanted toe work than it should complain.
Hate Junos is a directory in slash home that director do not belong to any user in Etc.
Password Still want to know that?
Okay,
so how do we do that skin into a script and I want you to create that script in slash temp
.
Go to seedy stache,
temp and do V.
I check the i.
R.
This is the name of the script,
the vehicle,
and we will define our,
uh,
show and our daughter who is the author.
That's you date description.
This is the best part.
This script will find.
Directories it out,
Uses modified.
Is your ate their hate Tuesd.
Okay,
now what it will do it will first go into CD into slash home.
I want to run this.
Come then.
Well put a statement for and I will put a variable this time De ir It's just a variable.
You could pick anything again in Asterix.
So I went to a CD slash home during and I am looking for all the directories and I'm
putting all those directories into a variable called de ir.
Then I want to do Is Creed another?
Very.
And I'm gonna call this variable C H check.
Hello.
Dollar parentheses,
which is right above number nine quipped minus C from de ir.
This is a variable we have and a guest has let me write the script and I will explain you
once more time.
What I'm doing check is greater than one.
Then echo.
You don't have to put a coat if you don't want to.
Some time I do it sometime.
I don't It really doesn't matter.
Directory is signed to a else directory is not assigned to see and don't.
Okay,
does this script I wrote?
Let me explain you again.
Okay,
so what is script is actually doing is it's finding all is going into the home directory,
and it's finding everything in the home directions putting into the de ir directory,
which is a variable.
Then what is doing is is defining another variable and another variable.
What is going to do is going to run a command,
grab it minus C option,
which will do the count if it finds it wanted to.
Whatever.
And it's gonna grab from this list,
which is in this Derek in this variable,
and it's gonna grip from at Sea Password.
And if it finds even one directory that has a user.
That's what I said.
If check is greater than one,
if this variable returns,
anything more than zero,
which is check is greater than one.
Then Echo Directory is assigned to a user.
If it is below 01 then it's going to say else directory is not assigned to the user and fee
and done so.
We will run the script real quick,
and I wanted to assign the permission.
Now let's run it Okay,
now you will see It says I absolve.
So basically what?
Before I tell you the output lets go to home and you will see there are 123456 directories
are slash home.
And now it's gonna grab.
Grab all these six directors from Etc.
Password and is going to say if that matches this is I absolve is assigned to orders of
perfect.
Juno's is not a scientific user.
Peter is not a sign to use it.
Test is test 123 is and test 456 is so basically.
That's what I'm doing it.
Now.
What I could do is I could simply if I run the script and I could simply do crap and I'll
do not.
And it will only give me,
um no such father.
Yeah,
I am in.
So now,
um,
think I put it in check up.
I'm putting a slash router.
All right,
So check de ir.
And when you hit,
enter.
And now when you do not,
I will know that these are the two users that do not have a user account and their
directory is there.
Why's there?
That's a problem.
That's a security risk.
So now I could simply go in and delete it or find out who who these users belong to.
Um,
also,
what happened is that's a real life example.
What happened is if,
if you have a group of people and one,
um,
one of your coworker leaves the company so you delete his or her account.
But somehow when you delete it,
it depends on which command you run the user delete.
It does not delete the Home directory with it.
It keeps the home directory.
Unless you specify in the user to leave with the option,
I believe it's dash that should move,
then.
Ever removed the director advisable?
Not so it's.
That's why you have to come in and do some off the house housekeeping and make sure all
those directories are gone.
So that's how it works.
Tried,
it's ah,
it's very useful script,
and you will need it one one way or the other.
Whatever that you're doing or if you are trying to look for other things,
you could just change the script to way that you want to use it